---
layout: post
hideAffiliateDisclaimer: true
---



Spend your valuable time with them, doing what they are interested in, instead of always putting a project first.

Talk to them at their level, not above or below them.

Get down on the ground and play with them, make 
forts and go inside.

Look ahead and envision what type of adult you want them to be and figure out what choices you need to make to build a foundation that will get them there.

Be a springboard and a cheerleader.

Many of these ideas could and will be layered upon one another as this creates a comfort level for your children to dare to dream, push the limits and try new things.

Most of our lives as adults can feel like we are repeating the “Don’t climb that roof”, “Stop biting the lamp” and the overused “No, you cannot swap the broccoli for the side of cookies with two-inch frosting” phrases, day after day.

A relationship with your child(ren) can be likened to the construction of a house.

Without a strong foundation, the whole structure will be in jeopardy later in years to come.

Most men would say they want to be a good father, but most have not taken the time to truly analyze the status of the relationship with their children.

Experimentation is important to be a father, because each child is different, and you will change yourself. What worked for one, may not for another and you might be in a different place mentally, financially or emotionally than before.

A child should have a certain amount of similarity to their parents, not just in looks but in their actions, reactions, and outlook. The more time you spend with your children the more people will make a connection between you. You can't spend time near a campfire and not come away smelling like smoke.

So, let’s get into the 5 tips to building a lasting relationship with your children.

Spend your valuable time with them, doing what they are interested in, instead of always putting a project first. 
This can be a hard one to put into practice because as fathers, one of our primary functions is to take care of the things around us. Even if you are not the mechanical type, making a phone call to a specialist is still taking care of a situation. The breakdown begins when we are not cognizant of the amount of time we are spending where. It’s the basics of investing. We will see returns on the things that, in this case, we put our time into. If you want to connect with your teenager years from now, you must begin investing in their interests now.

Our children pick up on concepts that we may think are too abstract. We might say to them or ourselves, “I work hard to provide”. Not only our time but attention is so important to them, they could care less if they have thousands of toys and a full course buffet every meal. They want you, Dad. Put down the electronic device, put off the project for a day or a few hours and find out what they are interested in. My daughters are 3 and 5 currently, and one wants to be a fire girl and the other a detective. I don't know where those career choices came from and frankly, I hope they develop other interests instead when they get older. But I know what they are interested in. I can tell you which one has a better imagination, and which one is more organized. I know the intricacies that are only known when you spend time with someone.

Always being busy with a project or allowing something else to have your attention is telling them, they are not worth your time. Tell yourself what you want but try this out and you will see a defining change in yourself and your relationship.

Talk to them at their level, not above or below them
Many parents can make the mistake of assuming their children can’t and won’t understand what they are intending to say. Yes, there is a learning curve to the statement above, but I want to unpack this and see if there is any truth that might help you.

Talking to them does not mean treat them like an adult or ask for their advice on things that they have no concept of. It means, whether they can speak yet or know sign language, whatever the case, you are letting them know, their voice is important.

Bring them into the conversations and begin a dialog that will pay back dividends when they are older and feel that they can talk to you about more complex issues and you are listening.

Get down on the ground and play with them, make forts go inside.
This might seem such a strange way to connect with your kids, but when you are fully engaging in imaginative play, you are opening a whole new world for them.

Having a father that not only makes a fort, or something similar, but one who goes beyond the initial building stage speaks to them.

A fort or even a blanket over a chair can become a 3-ring circus or a cabin in the woods. The ideas are of course endless. In this age, it is even more critical to teach imagination. Computers are great, I'm using one to write this, however, if they are taking away a vital part of being a human, the imagination, we must model what it's like to think without them. We as parents can be known to say, "Go play", but do we really mean to turn on a TV or IPAD and stop getting in the way. Creativity is innate, but it needs to be nurtured, according to the article in Live Science. Rettner, Rachael (2011, August 12) Are Today's Youth Less Creative & Imaginative (Web Article) Retrieved August 14, 2018, from https://www.livescience.com/15535-children-creative.html. This article goes on to compare SAT scores and other aspects of creativity and the possible decline of creativity, however, the sentence I mentioned above is so powerful. If I don't show my children how to come up with alternatives to solutions or simple the multiple ways to use a box, they may end up without the ability to do so.

Look ahead and envision what type of adult you want them to be and figure out what choices you need to make to build a foundation that will get them there.
I guess this way of thinking might come from my current occupation, as I work in the acquisition world. We acquire other companies by analyzing their financials, contracts and come up with a dollar figure of what they are worth. This is, of course, the short explanation. So, if I use the thought process of knowing the outcome and then working backward to reveal hidden data and other questions about a company, could I not apply this to my children's future.

Every parent wants their kids to be smart and happy, but I am talking about going deeper with that reality. If they are to be smart, I must treat them like they are smart, through my actions and speech (See question #2). A father engaging in teaching his children and being involved results in “Higher IQ scores than their peers by age three” Krisch, Joshua A. (2017, October 3rd) The Science of Dad and the ‘Father Effect' (Web Article) Retrieved August 14, 2018, from https://www.fatherly.com/health-science/science-benefits-of-fatherhood-dads-father-effect/

This brings me to another point. Be the type of man you want your daughter to marry. Treat her with love and respect, listen to her talk about whatever she wants to, take her on dates and tell her every day how amazing and beautiful she is. Let's stop with the macho talk about not showing our feelings. Be a father who has an eye on who they want their children to be and work to build the best foundation you can.

Be a springboard and a cheerleader.
It's not about being fake or creating a false sense of ego but rather, giving them the confidence to try something. Being a springboard is the mindset that you want your children to go above and beyond you in life.

Allow your children to try different things and to say “No”, to the activities they don’t enjoy. It seems that many parents are creating a busy and chaotic life for themselves, with their children running to one event after another. Are you showing your children to enjoy life or be busy even at the expense of your family’s relationship?

Everything comes down to the foundation on which your house is built.

